You are listening to a teaching from Reality LA.
My name is Jonathan.
If I haven't met you before, I'd love to meet you after the gathering.
As was said earlier, we're currently in a four week sermon series
talking about the essentials of church involvement.
And while there are a number of ways you can be involved here at Reality LA, we wanna spend some time this year giving a little bit of clarity and even motivation for what matters the most.
And so if you weren't here a couple weeks ago on Vision Sunday, I would encourage you to go and listen to that sermon, laying out kind of how the elders and leadership of the church senses God leading us this year.
But Jeremy laid out the four essentials for what healthy church involvement looks like here.
It's to gather on Sundays, engage the discipleship pathway, be involved in Christian community, and serve in some capacity.
Now, last week we talked about the importance of gathering together for worship.
We talked about how Sundays aren't just this formal tradition that we have, but we are coming here believing that God wants to meet with us.
And that this is a unique way that we get to experience the presence of God as the people of God.
And today we're going to continue on that conversation by talking about engaging the discipleship pathway.
But before we get into the scripture and before we talk about what engaging the discipleship pathway means, I wanted to take a step back and explain why we need to talk about discipleship at all.
To be a disciple means to be a learner or a student.
And that doesn't just mean informal capacities.
The truth is that we're all being discipled.
We're all being formed by different beliefs, by different people, by different worldviews and more.
And so whether you're here today and you're on a Christian or you're not, you behave a certain way.
something is influencing you to behave a certain way, to speak a certain way, even to think a certain way.
And it doesn't matter what environment you're in, you are being formed to believe certain things.
Which I feel like a lot of us in LA don't like to admit that this is true because the West Coast land of free thinkers, right?
But have you ever considered that the only reason you think that you're a free thinker is because the environment you're in is telling you you're a free thinker?
Like we are formed by, if you grew up in rural Missouri, maybe some of you did, you probably would think differently.
My brother and I, we grew up here in Southern California, but when he was a teenager, he moved over to Missouri and is, I mean, he's raising seven kids for now, probably more in the future.
His kids love the rodeo, like, you know, there's like four year olds riding bowls and stuff.
I've forgotten all their names.
But that's kind of what his life is like.
And over the, he's been there for 15, 20 years and I've been able to like observe and see.
And at first I was honestly, I'm a little judgmental and I was like, man, this is such a bubble.
Like, you know, I wonder if they like understand there's more than crops.
And, but then the more I've like talked with my brother, I realized, shoot, I'm in a bubble.
Like LA is a bubble.
And like talking to my brother has made me realize it's not just the people out there, it's me and us here in this city.
Now we are formed by our environments around us.
Even, I mean, you think about the way you go to work in this city, the way you think about success or failure.
This city wants you to take its convictions and its passions and to believe certain things.
And to be clear, I'm not saying it's all bad.
I'm not saying the way that you're being influenced is all necessarily bad things.
But I think we need to honestly say, I am being formed.
We are being formed by our environments.
Now,
We're all disciples of something or somebody, but to be a Christian means that you are a disciple of Jesus.
Now, again, some of you might be here and you're not a Christian and you might be thinking, if Christians are supposed to be influenced by Christ, why do so many Christians not look like Jesus?
Which is a good question.
And some of you, maybe you are Christians and you're thinking about all the people you know that don't really look like Jesus.
But the reality is we all have our own blind spots.
And before we judge what other people are experiencing, we need to look internally and say, where am I at?
And what is God doing with me?
Not that we don't address the other things, but we first look inward so our posture is humble.
And I believe today that as we talk about discipleship, I believe God wants to expose some of those things for us, not out of condemnation, but out of grace to grow us and to change us.
It seems to me that a lot of the church is in a discipleship drought, that in some spaces, Christians are being taught what they should believe, but not how they should behave.
And in other spaces, Christians are being taught how they should behave, but they're being taught to ignore what the Bible teaches.
Being a disciple of Jesus, there's always gonna be a form of counter formation, which means recognizing the ways we're formed so we can go to Jesus and say, reform me.
Change me.
And this is a really important aspect of repentance.
See, when we talk about repentance, oftentimes the thing that gets pointed out is that repentance means to change your actions, to do a 180, which is good and true.
But the word repentance literally means to change your mind.
Repentance doesn't start with changing your actions.
It starts with changing your mind.
If you think about this, you can change your actions and still have the same mindset.
I can do something loving for you out of bitterness and resentment.
You can do the right things for the wrong reasons, but repentance means changing your mind and letting the actions change from there.
Now, my wife gets annoyed off and after a reminder of this, but I need to remind her that I'm colorblind.
And every time there's like, well, whatever, I'm not going to go there.
I'm colorblind.
which doesn't mean I can't see color.
It means that I get certain colors confused, okay?
So blues and purples sometimes look similar to me, reds and greens.
You can imagine Christmas time is difficult, but reds and greens sometimes look very similar to me.
And I remember I realized this when in fourth grade, you know the tests that have all the color dots on it and you're trying to see numbers and I was like, I don't see everybody around me in my class was like, oh yeah, there's a six.
And I was like, I see nothing in this.
And so I realized I was color blind.
Now, I've had people say, why don't you try those color blind glasses?
Where it shows you what color looks like with, I guess, normal human beings, what it looks like.
Now, imagine I get those glasses, I put them on, and I finally can see the contrast between blue and purple.
And I see a beautiful green Douglas fir tree, and I see the red ornaments popping out, and I'm like, dang, this is beautiful.
But then I take the glasses off, and I'm back to seeing things the way that I see them.
Now, my reality is I can't see reds and greens very easily.
But the only reason I believe that I see color incorrectly is because I've accepted that there is something true that I cannot see.
That reality exists in a way that my eyes are telling me is different.
Now, scripture claims that it offers us the correct and the true way to view the world.
And if you are a Christian, you are choosing to surrender yourself.
to what scripture says is true, even if it contradicts your own preconceived notions or what the world around you is saying.
Scripture teaches that God created the heavens and the earth and that he sustains all things by the word of his power.
Scripture teaches that God created the universe good, but human sin broke it.
Scripture teaches that we are, by nature, sinful, that we are children of wrath who are self-centered and separated from God.
But God loves this so much that He didn't leave us to die in our own sin.
He sent His Son to the earth to live and die for us so that we could be saved.
And Jesus, the Son of God rose from the dead and sent the Holy Spirit to dwell in us.
And Scripture says, Jesus is coming back to judge the living and the dead and that those who trust in Him will be raised to life everlasting.
That's what Scripture teaches.
And if you're a Christian, you're saying, I believe that.
The more you know Jesus, the more you learn from Jesus, the more you become like Jesus.
And this church, this is God's ultimate goal for you is to become like Jesus.
This is not my opinion.
This is in Scripture.
Scripture says this Romans 828, and we know that for all those who love God, all things work together for good for those who are called according to his purpose.
Beautiful verse.
Right?
It completely reframes with the way we think about suffering, the way we think about pain.
It reframes the way that we think about hope and what our hope is for the future.
But have you ever looked at that verse and wondered, well, God's working all things together for good.
What is the good?
If he's working all for good, what is the good that he's working it toward?
Well, Roman tells us the next verse, Romans 8, 29.
For those whom he foreign you, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son.
So the goal that God has for you, his chief goal for you as a follower of Jesus, which by the way is the greatest good for you, his chief goal is making you fully into the image of his son, Jesus.
Following Jesus isn't just about saving you from your sin, it is, but it's about more than that.
It's not just about everlasting life,
It is about Jesus making you more and more like him.
That's his goal, and that's why we need to talk about discipleship this morning at church.
Now, one of the more common metaphors that Jesus uses to talk about discipleship is that of a flock of sheep and a shepherd.
So we're gonna read from John 22, excuse me, John 10 this morning, verses 22 through 30.
If you have your Bible, you can turn there.
If not, you can follow along, it'll be on the screen behind me.
So John 10, 22 through 30.
At that time, the feast of dedication took place at Jerusalem.
It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple in the colonnade of Solomon.
So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, how long will you keep us in suspense?
If you are the Christ, tell us plainly.
Jesus answered them, I told you, and you do not believe.
The works that I do in my father's name bear witness about me, but you do not believe because you are not part of my flock.
My sheep hear my voice and I know them and they follow me.
I give them eternal life and they will never perish and no one will snatch them out of my hand.
My father who has given them to me is greater than all and no one is able to snatch them out of my father's hand.
I and the father are one.
This is the word of God.
Pray with me.
Lord, as we approach our word, we recognize that we need you to change the way that we see things.
to help us see things the way that you see things.
And Lord, I'm grateful that you have a vested interest in our discipleship that is not us trying to work hard, it is you forming the character of Christ in us.
I pray Jesus that you would form us this morning, shift our eyes, help us to see things the way that you do and draw us to yourself.
Lord, we come before you humbly as the people who are in need.
Speak to us, we pray in your name, Jesus.
Amen.
So Jesus was in Jerusalem, it says during the Feast of Dedication, which in Hebrew is Hanukkah.
This feast was established in Jerusalem in 164 BC when the Jews revolted against the Syrian king Antiochus Epiphanes.
Antiochus was obsessed with Greek culture and he decided he wanted to eliminate Jewish culture and infuse all of his gods and all of his power into Palestine.
And in the year 170, he attacked Jerusalem, 170 BC before Jesus.
He attacked Jerusalem and is said to have killed 80,000 Jews and then taken another 80,000 as slaves.
Antiochus made a capital offense in Jerusalem to own a copy of the law of Moses and he made it illegal to circumcise your children.
And if you did that, he would crucify you and he would hang your children by your neck.
Antiochus profaned the temple in Jerusalem.
He turned the chambers into brothels and he dedicated the altar to Zeus by sacrificing swine on it.
But a man named Judas Maccabeus and his brother raised up a group to fight back.
And they finally defeated Antiochus in 164.
They cleansed the temple.
They purified the altar so they could worship Yahweh again.
And that's why it's called the Feast of Dedication.
They took back
the altar and rededicated it to God.
And now you fast forward 200 years about, to where Jesus comes, into Jerusalem during this feast.
And in Jesus's day, Jerusalem wasn't occupied by Syria, they were occupied by Rome.
And the Jewish people were waiting for another savior, like Judas Maccabeus, who could rise up and fight off Rome and free Israel.
And the concept that the Jews had was that of a Messiah, or in Greek Christ, a Messiah who would come up and defeat their enemies and free them from oppression and usher them into a golden era of prosperity once again.
Well, many people were wondering, is Jesus this Messiah?
I mean, he was making a number of claims that were huge.
And he was performing these signs and miracles and everyone's thinking, shoot, this might be it.
This guy might be the guy that saves us from oppression.
But then Jesus wasn't doing the things that they wanted him to do or thought he should do.
The things Jesus was doing were unexpected.
and confusing.
And so we read in John 10 that the Jews come to Jesus during the Feast of Dedication where they're celebrating the Savior from 200 years before, hoping for a Savior to come again, they go to Jesus and they say, how long will you keep us in suspense?
If you are the Christ, tell us plainly.
Now this might seem like an earnest question, but another way you can translate this first statement is, how long are you gonna annoy us?
And so they're going to Jesus and
In reality, they already know who Jesus is claiming to be.
They already know this.
I mean, you can read this before in the book of John, but even right after this story in John 33, 1033, it says the Jews answered Jesus, it's not for a good work that we're going to stone you, but for blasphemy because you, being a man, make yourself God.
Okay, so the crowd knew who Jesus claimed to be and they wanted to kill him.
So this question wasn't earnest, it was a trap.
It was, can we get you to say something that will justify us stoning you right now?
Now, Jesus says to them in verse 25, I told you and you do not believe the works that I deal with my father's name bear witness about me.
And so the problem is not that Jesus isn't being clear.
The problem is that the people are refusing to believe it.
Jesus said, it's not even just my words.
It's the works that I'm doing.
You're seeing me do stuff.
in the Father's name.
And in verse 30, he even goes further.
In verse 30, he says, I and the Father are one.
What Jesus is doing is he's claiming that when you see Jesus' work, you are seeing God work.
And when you see God work, you are seeing Jesus' work.
The Father and Jesus have the same goal.
And either way, when they are working, they are accomplishing their unified goal.
And notice, Jesus is not saying that he and the Father are the same person.
Right?
I mean, if that was the case, they could have just said he's a lunatic.
And like, there's would have been a lot easier for them.
It's he's crazy.
He doesn't know what he's saying.
They understand what Jesus is doing is saying, I am equal to God.
What you see God doing is what I am doing.
I and the Father are one.
And this is where Jesus gets into this metaphor of sheep.
In verse 25, he says, you do not believe because you are not my sheep.
Now,
Think about how offensive this is, because Jesus is talking to God's flock.
He's talking to the people of Israel, the children of Abraham, who God said, you are my chosen people to be a light to the nations.
And Jesus says, yeah, the reason you don't believe me is because you're not.
You're not actually part of God's flock.
Being associated with God's people does not make you God's people.
You can be a really good person who looks like a model Christian, but if you miss Jesus, you miss everything.
Churches, we talk about the essentials and what church involvement looks like the next few weeks.
Do not mistake being involved in church rhythms for actually being a part of God's family.
Do not focus on your actions with not looking at your own heart.
Jesus says if you do that, you're like cleaning the cup on the outside and forgetting that you kind of need to clean the inside too.
Healthy church involvement is really important, but that's not what saves you.
That's what you do if you are saved.
God is not interested in your performance or your commitment to church tradition if it doesn't come with your heart.
Obedience without love means nothing.
God wants you.
So Jesus, he goes on to talk about the sheep.
And he says that there are three attributes of his sheep.
three things that show who his sheep are.
In verse 27, he says, my sheep hear my voice.
I know them, they follow me.
And you'll notice right off the bat that these are not commands.
Jesus is not telling you what to do if you wanna be a sheep.
He's giving you a description of what sheep do.
Jesus is not telling the Jews, hey, if you wanna be a part of God's family, do these things.
He's saying, this is what God's family does.
Jesus' goal here is not to explain how to become sheep, it's to explain what the sheep do.
And the first thing he says is that the sheep hear his voice.
Now, it's been said that shepherds often knew all of their sheep by name and the sheep actually could tell their shepherds' voice from others.
And so a lot of ancient shepherds, they wouldn't get nervous if their flocks grazed with other flocks because they knew they could just call out.
and gather their sheep to themselves.
I even read one story, I think this was more modern day, but a shepherd played his flute all the time for the sheep.
And when his sheep were with another three or four flocks, he just played his flute and his sheep lifted their heads and came over to him.
So to hear the voice of Jesus saying, my sheep hear my voice, he's not saying that you audibly notice somebody talking.
I love how theologian Samuel Naguis says this, he says,
Listening here includes both hearing with one's ears and responding in obedience from one's heart.
And so Jesus isn't saying that sheep just hear his voice.
He's saying his sheep hear his voice and respond in obedience.
And as a side note, this is one of the reasons it's so vital to be in Scripture often.
Scripture isn't like the thing you do to be a good Christian, but if you want to be familiar with God's voice, read Scripture.
Scripture is the authoritative word of God.
If you want to know God's voice in all of your life, read Scripture a lot.
And then you'll get familiar and you'll know his voice in the rest of life.
So Jesus says, my sheep, they hear my voice.
They know my voice and they respond.
The second attribute of sheep, Jesus says that he knows his sheep.
He knows his sheep.
Now, if Jesus is God, then technically he knows everybody.
So clearly, Jesus is not talking about just knowing somebody, that all the sheep, he's saying a particular type of knowing here.
The fifth century theologian from Egypt, Cyril of Alexandria, he said, no one is entirely unknown by God, but to be known in this way is to become part of his family.
So Jesus doesn't just know who his sheep are, he knows them personally.
There is a relationship, not just an awareness of a person,
Now, Jesus can know you because he's God and he knows all things.
But can you say that Jesus knows you because you have a relationship with him?
Are you able to say that Jesus knows you because you are letting him know you?
God's desire is for relationship.
The relationship with God is what we lost in the Garden of Eden when sin entered the world.
We became separated from God.
And it's what Jesus restored when he died on the cross for our sins.
And so following Jesus isn't primarily about us doing good things for God.
It's about being with Jesus and cultivating our relationship with Jesus.
There's this really beautiful passage in Mark, Mark chapter three, where it talks about Jesus calling the 12 apostles to himself.
And it says that Jesus called the 12 first so that they might be with him, then that he might send them out to have authority over the demons and preach the gospel.
Jesus said, first, I'm calling you to be with me.
Jesus wants relationship for you to know him and to be known by him.
And so being a disciple doesn't mean doing things for Jesus, it means knowing Jesus.
So Jesus says, he knows his sheep, he knows us.
And earlier in John, it says that the sheep know Jesus.
The third attribute of his sheep, Jesus says, his sheep follow him.
Now, for a lot of people who grow up in religious environments, it can be easy to miss the fact that Jesus doesn't just want a part of you, he wants all of you.
As followers of Jesus, we're learning to follow Jesus in all of life.
We don't leave parts of ourselves, we give our whole selves to Jesus.
Some of you are good at following Jesus in your actions, but you just can't seem to accept the things that Jesus taught.
You've ordered your life in a way that shows love and compassion, but you ignore the teachings of Jesus when they're hard or challenge you.
You don't want to ruffle feathers, you'd rather just imitate Jesus' actions and not repeat his words.
But you can't follow Jesus if you don't believe what Jesus said.
Some of you are good at believing what Jesus said, but you don't sound like Jesus.
You've bought into the lie that saying the truth is inherently loving even if it's said without love, which is not in the Bible.
Speaking the truth without love is worse than saying nothing at all.
And you'd be wise to remember that the people that Jesus had the harshest words for were the religious people who knew the right things to say.
Following Jesus doesn't just believe in correct doctrine, it means imitating Jesus in your words and in your tone and in your deeds.
Some of you are actually pretty good at sounding like Jesus.
You know the right words to say and you look really spiritual, but secretly you ignore what Jesus tells you to do.
You don't care to honor him with your body.
You ignore the fact that God calls us to live holy because he is holy.
But we have to accept the ethics of Jesus, even when it's contrary to the world around us.
Following Jesus means living in a way that reflects him.
Some of you today are holding back pieces of your life.
Maybe you don't want to change and you're living your life for yourself and you haven't realized the emptiness of that yet.
Maybe you're afraid of changing.
I mean, it can be scary to surrender, to give up and surrender to something bigger than yourself.
But remember, God's chief good for you is to make you more like Jesus.
And God isn't trying to change you because he's unhappy with you.
He's trying to change you because he loves you.
I know that for many of you, maybe even the Spirit's convicting you of certain things right now, but you need to understand if you feel that conviction, you need to recognize where it's coming from.
It's coming from a loving Father who is patient with you.
A loving Father who is like a surgeon that wounds to heal.
God isn't revealing sin or areas of immaturity in your life to shame you.
He's revealing it to walk with you.
and to change you and to grow you as you surrender yourself to Him.
Remember, God has a vested interest in your becoming more like Jesus.
This process is a partnership.
God is not saying, do the right things become like Jesus and I'll meet you at the finish line.
That's not what's happening here.
Jesus promises to be with us each step of the way as we work toward becoming like Jesus.
This is why Paul the Apostle in Philippians two, verses 12 through 13, he says, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
For it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure.
Church, God is committed to your growth.
Are you committed to your growth with him?
I hope it's a little more clear even now why we need to talk about discipleship and why this is so important.
And I hope it's a little more clear what it means to be a disciple of Jesus.
But now I want to circle back to the beginning of this and talk about what we're talking about today, engaging the discipleship pathway.
Right, that's the focus for today, engaging the discipleship pathway.
On Vision Sunday, we put out a survey, and about 500 people, I believe, filled that out.
And one of the questions on it was, have you completed reality LA's discipleship pathway online?
And here are the results.
They should be behind me.
Okay.
4% of you said you don't know what it is.
Which is, I mean, that's not very many people.
The only concerning thing about that is Jeremy just told you what it is before he told you to follow the survey.
But it will just pretend that that's not real.
4% of it, you said you don't know what it is.
7% of you said you started it, didn't complain it.
19% of you said you completed it.
And 70% of you said you have not done it.
Now, based on these survey results, I think there are three questions that we need to answer.
If we're gonna prioritize engaging the discipleship pathway this year, three questions that we need to answer.
First question.
What is the discipleship pathway?
Honestly, it's a good question.
The discipleship pathway is a tool that we created to help us understand what it looks like to follow Jesus in all of life.
The discipleship pathway covers 12 key dynamics that show what a life renewed by Jesus looks like.
And while these 12 dynamics are not the whole of Christian life, we believe that somebody who follows Jesus as a way of life in all of life, that they will consistently engage and grow in these areas over time.
The discipleship pathway is a great tool for new believers and seasoned believers.
It's not a class that you graduate from or a box you check off.
It's a tool to use to grow in following Jesus.
It's also a tool that you can use as you show other people how to follow Jesus.
One of our convictions as a church and as more broadly as Christians is that the disciples of Jesus make disciples of Jesus.
I mean, that's honestly the only reason we're here right now is because the 12 apostles heard Jesus say, go and make disciples.
And they said, okay, and they did it.
And then the disciples, they made did it.
And then they kept on going until 2000 years later, we're sitting here, right?
And so we take that up seriously, that Jesus has called us to make disciples of Jesus.
We take that upon ourselves, to show people the beauty of the gospel and what it looks like to follow him.
And in part, this is because we're not just concerned with ourselves.
We want to tell other people about Jesus.
We want to show other people why this isn't just some worldview.
We believe this is how the world really is.
The discipleship pathway is a great tool that you can help walk other people through what life looks like following Jesus, whether they met him yesterday or 30 years ago.
Now, we obviously don't have the time or the attention span for that matter to dive deeply into all 12 of these right now, but I'm just going to list them out and make a comment, probably just one comment on each word willing.
Okay, the first one, dynamic number one is the story of Scripture.
And this dynamic reminds us that Scripture shows us the world as it really is, and we seek to live by that story.
Dynamic number two, knowing God.
That God's primary desire is for us to know Him, not just to do things for Him, but to know Him deeply.
And how do we do that?
What does that look like?
That's what this dynamic explores.
Dynamic three, identity in Christ.
Faith in Jesus makes us new creations, which means
When you follow Jesus, you're becoming who you already are in Him.
And you need to know who you are before you start trying to be that person yourself.
Dynamic four, formative practices, we cultivate spiritual practices that shape us into Christ-like character.
It's kind of part of what Nathan was talking about earlier with the church calendar, right?
We set up practices to form us into Christ-like character.
Dynamic five,
Healthy relationships, we're committed to loving each other because we are committed to loving Jesus together.
Dynamic six, healing from wounds.
We are wounded in relationships and can experience healing in relationships with God and with each other.
And this is an important one because we've all got wounds and we don't always realize when those wounds are projecting on other people.
So knowing yourself and knowing how you're broken is going to help you follow Jesus.
Dynamic seven, known in community, we're a new family made up of people from different backgrounds who learned to share life together.
Dynamic 8 belong to a church.
As a new family, we are committed to the well-being of one another.
Dynamic 9 witness to Christ, we share the good news of Jesus with other people, and we make disciples.
Dynamic 10, do justice.
We recognize the dignity of all human beings, and we seek equity and order for human flourishing.
Dynamic 11, we work with God.
We follow Jesus in the unique callings that we all have in our workspaces, whether it's working for money or not for money.
We are doing things with Jesus in our work.
And Dynamic 12, make culture that as we live as a new family, it brings change and transformation to the world around us.
So those are the 12 dynamics that we say, the 12 dynamics of renewal.
And we made some videos for these dynamics.
We made some discussion questions, reflection questions for you to go through in small groups.
All that is available online.
So that's what the discipleship pathway is.
If you all took the survey today, you would all say, I at least know what it is, right?
Okay.
I almost like actually asked you to tell me, but that might be a little chaotic.
Okay, so that's what the discipleship pathway is.
Second question, why is the discipleship pathway important?
I hope that it kind of already answered that with the rest of this sermon.
But let me give you a couple of other reasons here.
First, these dynamics just come from scripture.
So it's not like somebody made these up and was like, these will be cool to focus on.
Yeah, I hope you see that we care about these, because the Bible cares about these things.
But also, uniting around a shared discipleship pathway like this, it gives us a common understanding of discipleship as a church.
It gives us a shared experience around what it looks like to follow Jesus.
And it gives us language.
So we can be united in how we talk about this together as a church.
And so one of the reasons this is so important is because it unites us as a church.
I mean, there's so many great churches in the city, but when we're coming together as a church, we're saying, this is who we are.
This is what God's called us to do.
And the discipleship pathway gives us a common framework for that.
And to be extra clear on this, I'm not saying that you have to do this to be a disciple of Jesus.
I'm saying if you're a part of reality, LA, this is the way that we are moving forward in discipleship as a church.
So that's why the discipleship pathway is important.
The third question, what does it mean to engage the discipleship pathway?
What does it mean to engage the discipleship pathway?
Well, on the one hand, you're doing it right now.
So good job.
You are engaging with the discipleship pathway because you are listening to me talk about it.
And hopefully you're working through it internally for yourself.
But I want to let you in on another secret.
If you're a part of reality LA, you've already been engaging with the discipleship pathway, whether you realize it or not.
Every Sunday we say our vision and mission statement, right?
We are seeking the renewal of the city of Los Angeles through the good news of Jesus by making disciples who love, follow Jesus, love one another and serve Los Angeles.
And here's the thing, the 12 dynamics of renewal
are all embedded into the mission statement.
And so we follow Jesus by accepting the story of Scripture.
We follow Jesus by knowing God and understanding our identity in Christ and developing formative practices.
We love one another by building healthy relationships, healing from wounds, being known in community and belonging to a church.
We serve Los Angeles by witnessing to Christ doing justice, working with God and making culture.
And so the 12 dynamics are deeply embedded in who we are as a church already.
Secondly, our staff is organized according to our vision and mission.
And so even if you think about this, if you're a part of a community group, or if you've talked to anybody on the community group team, you are engaging in the dynamic of being known in community.
So most of what we do as a church is all embedded in this.
Every Sunday, we have a scripture reading, which I know we're learning to, you know, participate in, right?
By getting here on time.
And the scripture reading for years followed the discipleship pathway.
For years, it would be aligned with the different dynamics every single month.
Lastly, as you guys walked in today, you may have seen there's a sign out there that talks about 2026 and all the things that we're doing this year as a church, so the things we plan to do.
And on that board, you can see how all those things are connected to different dynamics of renewal.
So there you go, you're all engaging with this more than you realized it.
I just want to make the invisible visible so you understand.
This is how we have organized as a church.
So for 2026, what we are saying is we want you to engage with it more deeply and intentionally if you have not already.
I know that many of you have gone through the online tools with small groups.
Some of you have gone through discipleship cohorts, which is great.
But I want to give you four practical ways you can engage with the discipleship pathway this year.
And I want you just to choose one of them.
You can choose multiple ones, but at least choose one.
The first way you can engage in the discipleship pathway this year is by joining a discipleship cohort.
Discipleship cohorts are a 10-week process.
We're meeting after church immediately from 12 to 130, where we take small groups of people through the 12 dynamics of renewal in the context of small group discipleship.
We're doing these cohorts three times this year.
The first round starts today, actually, and there's about 100 people that are going through that today.
There's no more space for that if you didn't sign up.
But the next one will be starting mid-April after Easter.
We will have ASL interpretation for that round.
And then in the fall, we'll do a third round where we will also have childcare.
So we hope that as many of you as possible, we'll go through the discipleship cohorts this year to engage with it.
But secondly, if you can't do that, we would encourage you to utilize the online tool with other people that you know.
Grab some people, I talked to a woman today, this morning, who's gonna ask a few people in her community group to go through it Saturday mornings.
Do that, ask other people, hey, would you like to engage in these dynamics with me over, and you could do it in 10 weeks, in 10 months?
There's no time stamp, you could do it however you see fit.
But go through the content with some other people.
Go through the content with a small group of people that you can grow close to and talk together about following Jesus.
Third, you can go out to the courtyard and there's a table out there
which I should have said this earlier.
At the table, you can sign up for the cohorts for later this year.
There's a QR code for that, but there's also little bookmarks.
And if you just have a crazy year coming up and you're like, I don't know how I could commit to doing more, just grab a bookmark.
The bookmark that has the 12 dynamics on it, put it in your Bible.
Put it in a book that you're reading and just spend time this year reflecting on it.
We as a church are engaging with it this year.
You do that as well.
engage with the discipleship pathway, even if it's just reflecting on the 12 dynamics.
And lastly, if all of those things, number four, if all those things just feel like too much, just choose one of the four things or 12 things.
Just choose one of the 12 and ask God, how do you wanna work this in me this year?
How do you wanna shape me and form me and draw you to yourself and make me more like Jesus in this way?
So in 2026, we wanna engage with a discipleship pathway and we want everybody to engage with it in some meaningful way.
If you've already gone through it before, consider taking other people through it and showing people what it looks like to follow Jesus in that way.
Now, I wanna close our time this morning by going back to the book of John for a moment.
Because remember, Jesus describes the sheep, but he doesn't explain how to become a sheep in this passage.
Earlier in John, he does this.
In John 629, Jesus said, this is the work of God that you believe in Him who He has sent.
And so if you're here today and you're not a Christian, the point isn't do these 12 things and then you're a Christian.
The work of God is to believe in Jesus.
The invitation for you is to trust in Jesus, to repent of your sin and say, I see things the way that God sees them.
What God wants is
to once your heart, he wants to forgive you.
You don't have 10 steps to go through.
You don't need to pay a fee.
Jesus says, come to me.
If you have faith, come to me.
Now, in its own way, this is challenging.
If you're not a Christian, it takes humility, acknowledging that you need a savior.
It takes surrender, trusting Jesus with your life.
And it takes faith to believe that Jesus is who he said he is.
And so today, if you trust in Jesus, scripture says you become a new creature that you are given a new identity and that you are a child of God.
And scripture says that God gives you his Holy Spirit to dwell in you and to walk with you and to change you and transform you into the image of Jesus.
That's what it looks like to become a sheep.
And then Jesus says, this is what the sheep do.
They hear my voice, I know them, and they follow me.
Now John 10, 28 through 29, Jesus closes with these words.
He says, I give them my sheep eternal life and they will never perish and no one will snatch them out of my hand.
My father who has given them to me is greater than all and no one is able to snatch them out of the father's hand.
Jesus is saying that in him is eternal life and obviously that part of that is life everlasting, right?
He says you will never perish
But eternal life is more than that.
Eternal life is where God's creation flourishes.
Where God's creation functions the way it was meant to, where we are whole and complete.
Eternal life is life everlasting as it should be.
Like life everlasting the way things are does not sound good to me.
But Jesus is saying, I give you eternal life, life in me.
Life the way it was meant to be, no brokenness.
You don't have any more wounds to heal from because they've been healed.
That is what Jesus is saying.
And what's so beautiful about the way he closes this is he says, nobody can take this from you.
You're in the Father's hand and you think somebody can take you from God Almighty's hand?
No, they can't.
You are safe.
You are secure in Christ Jesus.
Because God is committed to you, you are secure in Christ.
So following Jesus, engaging with the discipleship pathway this year, we are being with Jesus.
We are learning from Jesus and we are becoming like Jesus.
That's God's goal for us.
And that's what we want to walk into this year.
Amen, church.
Amen, pray with me.
Lord, we recognize that
We need you to shape us and form us into Christ's character.
And we understand that that's gonna happen as we come to you, Jesus, and rely on you and what you've done for us on the cross.
Where I pray even this morning, I do pray for conviction if there are ways, immaturity or failures that you wanna expose in us and draw us closer to you with.
Lord, would you do that gently and kindly in our hearts?
Lord, I also just pray that you would help us to see you clearly
that you are a good father, a good shepherd who walks his sheep to green pastures.
Lord, any words of condemnation or shame that we're experiencing is not from you, it's from the enemy.
And I pray that you protect the space from any of his schemes, that you protect the space from any of the lives of the enemy that would tell us otherwise.
Lord Jesus, give us clarity to see you the way that you really are.
Lord, I pray for all of us as a church that you would give us
the mercy to continually repent and turn to you.
And I pray for an abundance of fruit in our lives this year, God, as we understand more deeply what it looks like to follow you.
Help us, Lord.
Help us to reflect you in what we say and what we do and how we say things.
And make us aware of your presence that we're not doing this alone.
We're doing this with you and with each other.
Jesus, we pray that you be honored and glorified even in our midst as we worship you.
And we pray these things in your name.
Amen.